## 1.1 Think About Time
I learned about many different time management and productivity in the various readings and videos given. The most interesting ideas I learned about were growth mindset, the Pomodoro technique, and different techniques to “getting in the zone.” The growth mindset technique is interesting to me because it theorizes people can develop abilities through effort, good teaching, and persistence. Failure is part of the learning process, and you can use it to help you develop your abilities and become more confident. I enjoy how small, repeated wins can help you develop a growth mindset.  In addition, I really enjoyed how to find your state of flow. “No fear of failure, clear goals, and balancing between challenge and skill” are concepts I’d like to incorporate in my daily routine. Being in the state of flow helps you stay focused, and enjoying the task at hand.  

Time Boxing is a period of time where a person works towards completing a goal for an allotted time. Once the time limit is over, the person assesses if they have accomplished the goal. The Pomodoro Technique is a version of time boxing. In the Pomodoro Technique, a person would work for 25 minutes on a specific project or goal, and then take a five-minute break. The goal is to work on a specific task without being sidetracked or procrastinate and helps a person focus longer. I could use this this technique during phase 0 when completing a specific task. Rather than jumping from project to project, this will help me complete the task at hand.

Currently, I use my Google calendar to help organize my day. I have specific time-blocks for breaks, working out or physical activity, and doing work. My strategy did work because it helped me get into a specific mindset during that allotted time. It also gave me mental breaks because I know I can only work for three hours at a time. However, I plan on incorporating the Pomodoro Technique into Phase 0 as described above. I will also create small goals for the weak so I can build my confidence in the world of coding. Since I do not have a full time job at the moment, I will get in a routine by sticking to a schedule and being diligent. I plan on doing phase 0 tasks in the morning, workout during lunch time to give myself a mental break, coach tennis, and work on phase 0 tasks in the evening/night time. 
## 1.2 The Command Line
A shell is simply a program that reads and executes commands from your keyboard. You can create files, move directories, and do perform numerous commands in the shell. The “bash” is the specific version of a shell. In Linux and Unix, we are using the “bash” version of the shell. There are other different shells available as well.

I have typed these commands before when following tutorials to modify my android phones and Amazon FireTV. However, I never completely understood what they did. Going through the material solidified my understanding of the different commands. Some of the commands I already knew, but some of the other commands were foreign to me. The most challenging aspect was attempting to memorize all of the commands, and combining them. In addition, getting used to typing out everything without the GUI was challenging at times too. I know most of the basic commands, but need to work on the more advanced commands such as grep. I was able to visualize how directories work in my head. I was able to successfully use most of the commands; however, I had trouble moving a file from the desktop to the temp directory.

I think cd, mkdir, and rmdir are important commands to know because you are able to change directories and create/delete directories as well. Being able to navigate directories is important because I believe we will be working with many different directories. Also, the command grep is important too because I believe we will be searching through different sections of the file.

- pwd – prints the directory or folder you are currently in on the command line
- ls – lists out all of the content of the directory you are in
- mv – moves, copies, or renames a file or directory 
- cd – use this command to change directories
- ../ - move up or down in the directory
- touch – create new, empty files
- mkdir – makes a new directory inside the current directory or folder
- less – searches through a file
- rmdir – removes a directory 
- rm – removes a specific file
- help – use this command to access help for specific commands
## 1.4 Forking and Cloning 
For this assignment, I learned how to create a repository through GitHub, fork a repository, and clone a repository from GitHub to my computer. Overall, I believed the process was pretty simple because the instructions were clear and GitHub made it user-friendly.

If I were instructing someone to create a repo, I would tell them to login to their GitHub account, and locate the + button in their upper right hand corner that is on the left of their account picture or avatar. Click the “+” button, and click “New repository.” After clicking, it should bring you to a new repository page. Name your repository, make it public or private, and choose if you want to add a license based on your needs.

After creating a repository, you have to clone your repository to your computer using the command line or terminal. First, navigate to the repository you just created. I just created a repo named “phase-0”, so I would navigate there. Then, navigate to the “HTTPS clone URL” section in the lower right hand corner. This is the URL you will need to copy the repository to your computer. Click the “Copy to Clipboard” link, and the URL will be copied to your clipboard. Now, open up your terminal and navigate to the directory where you want to clone the repo. I want to clone it to my phase-0 folder, so I would type “cd phase-0”. Make sure you are in your desired folder by typing “pwd”. Finally, you can clone the repo. Type “git clone URL_COPIED”. URL_COPIED is a placeholder for whatever URL you just copied from GitHub. After you have cloned your repo to your computer, type “ls” and you will see your repo in your folder!

Forking a repository is highly recommended in the coding world. Forking is basically taking a an existing repository and copying it to your own account. By forking a repo, you can modify, contribute, type code to a project without affecting the master project. In order to fork a repository on GitHub, you must have a GitHub account. The process is fairly simple. Navigate to the repo where you want to fork. On the upper right hand corner, click the “Fork” button. Select your own account, or the account where you would want to “fork’ the repository. After that is done, it will create a fork in your own account! Follow the directions to clone a repository above to clone the fork to your own computer.

I didn’t struggle mightily when setting up git and GitHub. One of the more foreign concepts was learning all the commands in the command line or terminal. I am starting to get more comfortable with using the command line, but need much more practice. I learned that most of the git commands are used in the terminal, and no programmers clone through GitHub. I also learned to make sure to clone my own fork to the repository, instead of the original repository.